[MUSIC]
>> Jon Kuperman: Moving into the sources
tab now so I'm gonna go ahead I'm going to
drag them next to each other so
we've got them over here.
Like I said we're gonna worry about
this right panel in the next section,
debugging.
For now,
we're just gonna kind of shrink that and
look at the two things going on here.
So this is like this top down, it'll
show you a couple of different things.
One, it'll show you every host name
that it's receiving files from.
So this is really helpful like,
I don't have much going on here,
but for example I happen to know I've
got this profiling page over here.
So this receives stuff from local host and
it's also getting stuff from all these
wonky other hosts which are like
YouTube embeds, CDNs that have fonts and
things like that.
So you can see every single host that's
delivering assets to you basically.
I'm gonna go back to my main page here and
then from there you can kind of
click through and
see what actual files are coming down so
two CSS files are coming down
here I've got bootstrap.css.
I've got my own style sheet, you can
see what fonts are being sent down.
You can see JavaScript and
you can see the document.
So this is a pretty cool.
Keep in mind you can always
pretty print things so for
web performance it's good to minify and
bundle all of your assets together but
when you actually take a look at them,you
can click pretty print over here and
it'll expand them out pretty nicely.
So yes, so basically again from in here
you're kind of dropped into this editing
mode where you can you know do things
that you want like you could go ahead and
like add some more style rules or
whatever and it's like very,
very similar with you know changes
that you make like background, blue,
or whatever will immediately
show up in the background here.
So this is just another way of kind of
real time editing the site they are on.
But where it gets really interesting is
this concept of work spaces so work spaces
are what allow you to persist your changes
that you're making in developer tools
to disk so you can actually start using
it as your you know your primary editor.
So basically how we start here,
I did want to give like a little bit of
a Warning here that work spaces
are they're not necessarily glitchy but
they're a little bit particular and so
we're going to cover some of the edge
cases but sometimes they're like sometimes
it's smart enough to guess file mapping
sometimes it's not things like that and
there are some certain rules so
we will cover all that stuff.
So let me go ahead and shrink this so
we just have you know
the tree collapsed them.
And then when I go ahead and open my
finder and I'm gonna go to the folder
of mastering Chrome Dev tools and
I'm just gonna take that folder and
I'm just gonna drag and
drop it into the sources panel.
And it needs is one of the things that
chrome needs access to your file system so
be sure to click allow.
>> Speaker 2: Can I ask a quick question
that came up a little while ago?
For those who are using
the node cast.io version
can you talk about
>> Jon Kuperman: This is the one you won't
be able to do on that yeah.
So workspaces only is good for
editing files on your local file system.
So this is the one thing you won't be
able to do but you can try it with
any project at home like you can make and
index.html in a style.css and
you can drag that folder
into a work space and
get the same effect but that's this is the
one part that they won't be able to do.
Cool, so
now we've got two different things right.
We've got our our local host which
is sending down all the stuff and
we've also got this
folder over here which is
if you look in the public folder
setting down the same stuff.
So now what we wanna do, now we've got
kind of both of these in our editor
we want to map them to each other so
we got to tell Chrome like hey when I edit
you know the style.css I need you to
update you know my local style.css.
So for example let's go ahead and
open style.css and
here's where it is finicky, so like
okay so this time it was smart enough.
And it's like hey would you like
me to map this network resource
to your local resource?
So I can click on more and
I can't yet totally establish
that mapping that's great.
And so you can map kind of
any file to any other file.
Sometimes it doesn't pop up that way and
you'll just wanna go
on to the not network one,
I'm sorry to the network one and
you want to right click on any
file like you can go like here and
now it says remove network mapping
if it wasn't mapped it would say
add network mapping so you would like go
to your style that CSS right click on it.
Add network mapping and
then add it to your style that CSS or
mapping you know a network
resource to a local resource.
So now what we can do that
we have those map together
is we can actually let me go ahead and
open my text editor here.
>> Speaker 2: Before we get further
into this, one question from
Marcos is how all this is
going to work with transpires.
>> Jon Kuperman: Yes that's great.
Okay that's a great question.
So this is like a little bit of
the finicking this because of this.
So a couple of things,
all of this workspace stuff
persisting changes to disk works only
with JavaScript and CSS not the document
because the document usually doesn't
have like this one the one mapping.
Transpilars add a lot of
complication to it so
in its simplest form Chrome is adding
support for SAS pre-processing.
So if you're using SAS since
it's just like this one engine you
will be able to edit your CSS.
And this is not released yet it is
an experiment which we will look at and
it will save back to the SAS file.
That being said if you're
using transpires for
like a bundler that's a different story.
So if you have a your like style.css and
style2.css and
you're bundling those together and
sending build.css down to the client you.
Won't be able to map that, so
what you should do with your hopefully
doing anyway though is your development
version should be serving all of those
files individually right not bundling.
Your bundling should only happen for
your production version.
So that's like two pieces of it and
then the third piece of you're doing like
Java Script transpiring with Babel or
something like that there
is no support for that.
So work spaces will not work for
that it does seem like something
Chrome is actively pursuing.
I've heard rumors that they
gonna add mustache support.
So you can be able to get it documents and
it'll find the mustache.
I don't know if that's coming.
So this is such a cool feature,
a few years ago when you were
serving down your raw assets.
I still use it a lot when
I can get away with it.
But for sure,
if you have a complicated build process,
it's not gonna be super useful.
Although, a lot of places that I've
worked are still able to send down
style sheets or still able to send down on
process JavaScript that you can edit but
it's a really good question.
Okay cool, so we've got it added now so
we've got style that CSS mapped and
then I just open up in a text
editor the style that CSS just so
we can kind of take a look
at how this is working.
So it's pretty cool is if I go in now and
I add like you know background.
Blue, I keep doing that I know
it's like horrible visually,
just the only color I'm thinking of and
I hit command S, you can see like
just like a text editor there's
an asterisk here, I mean it's not saved.
So I hit command S to save it and
I pop back here and immediately,
it's persisted to disk and what's even
cooler than that is you can go back into
your elements panel and now, any of these
little changes that you start making like
background pink, that's much better,
immediately saving to disk here.
So now you can throw away the editor
if you're lucky enough to be in this
situation, you can do all your, so like
the biggest thing win for me is I can't
tell you how many times I've like been in
Dev tools and tweaking all my styles and
I get everything looking perfect and
then I'm like I've been making changes for
three hours I have no idea what all
I've changed and then I refresh and
it's back to bad and I try to start again.
So like this way you can really start
tweaking all of these different things and
they all save immediately to disk and
that is true also with the JavaScript.
So if you open up a JavaScript file in the
sources made some changes to command us it
will also save immediately to disk.
So if this fits your use case
really really really awesome.
You can also do things
in the sources tab like.
You can create new files
basically just have everything
that you expect out of an editor.
So you can create new files you can rename
stuff you can you know map them together,
edit them all, that kind of stuff so
I had about six months ago
I did an experiment where I had only
front end tickets and I did nothing but
Chrome Dev tools for like a week as
my entire editor for everything.
And there were some things I
really missed but it's cool.
>> Speaker 3: Is there an undue?
>> Jon Kuperman: Yeah, so
if you still have access to Command Z or
Ctrl+Z But as far as like as you start
making a bunch of different changes,
hopefully version control
can be your savior there.
They're really good because especially
like you're making changes in the elements
tab is like so fast and easy right.
You like adding all these things or
whatever.
So hopefully version control
is kind of the answer but
you do in sources you have undo and
redo just like a text editor.
>> Speaker 4: What happened to local host
because when we got the style sheets
know it's early.
I know all the files and local host.
>> Jon Kuperman: I think it's only because
for every file in local host I was able to
find a mapping that it It's,
that it's gotten rid of local host.
Because normally,
>> Speaker 4: It
says under one relationship.
>> Jon Kuperman: Yeah and more robust
apps, I usually still see local host
which will have some unmapped
files in them or whatever, yeah.
>> Speaker 4: And then if you compile
it like you're SAS using grunt or
something like that would
it be smart enough to know
that the changes have
occurred when you save them?
>> Jon Kuperman: Yeah, so grant so
if you're using a build tool like that,
it will because the save all update the
file system and that it's like I notify or
whatever will notify grant.
I don't know, like everybody's build
is different levels of complicated.
I know that the SAS support
is very beta right now, and
I'm not sure how complex it can handle.
You know what I mean,
so as far as it will send the signal to
your file system that something's update,
so we're doing a gulp watch or grant
watch, that, you're going to go there.
I'm not saying that it's gonna be a great
experience with SAS right now cuz it's so
early with all the stages.
>> Jon Kuperman: Cool, so there's Camelot
you can play around with there again like
if it happens to work with your workflow
it's like such a great experience
especially as we get to the next part
of debugging being able to debug and
then edit immediately is really nice but
there's definitely as build processes
get more and more complicated.
This is less and less viable but
I do you think it's pretty awesome.